This is a mirror of http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=4298

This is the pre-alpha release of Vimside (Vim Scala IDE).  Vimside is
built upon the ENSIME server: github: https://github.com/aemoncannon/ensime
manual: http://aemoncannon.github.com/ensime/index.html

I expect to continue to update the sources on github frequently, flushing
out the features.  https://github.com/megaannum/vimside

Vimside communicates with the Ensime server using Shougo vimproc
( git://github.com/Shougo/vimproc ),
a very clean and elegant C-language binding to sockets (and also pipes,
ptys, files, etc.).  Vimside also uses Shougo vimshell to launch and
communicate with
the Scala Repl.

The current pre-alpha has only be run against the Ensime pre-built
ensime_2.9.2-0.9.8.1.tar.gz and ensime_2.10.0-SNAPSHOT-0.9.7.tar.gz
downloads.

Look at the plugin/vimside.vim file for key mappings: how to start the
Ensime server and the currently supported commands.

Features:

Vimside is based upon Ensime and, as a result, at the core of Vimside
are the capabilities of Ensime. These are reflected in the Ensime
commands supported by Vimside. The full set of Emacs Ensime commands
and key bindings can be found in comments in the Vimside file
plugin/Vimside.vim. Of those commands, those with Vim key mappings
are also in that file and they, basically, reflect that part of Ensime
that is currently implemented in Vimside. I mirrored the Vim key
mappings to reflect the Emacs-Ensime key bindings but the user is free
to define their own mappings. At the top of the Vimside plugin file
there is code that will source a file called 'plugin_user.vim' located
in the Vimside 'data' directory: ../data/vimside/plugin_user.vim
instead of the plugin file if it exists.

Current Supported Ensime Commands:

  Start Ensime
    This makes sure that the current environment and Option settings are
    correct and then launches the Ensime backend server. The Ensime server
    writes a file where it puts the socket port that its client should use.
    Vimside reads that file, gets the port number, and provides Ensime
    with configuration information.

  Stop Ensime
    There is also an autocmd that will kill the Ensime server when the
    user exists Vim.

  Map <Tab> to Omni-Code Completion in insert mode
    This mapping maybe overridden by the mapping is some other plugin
    (like a snipmate binding), So, if it does not seem to work for you
    list the current mappings and see what is overriding it.
    Very Useful.

  Symbol At Point
    With cursor on variable, jump to the definition of its symbol.
    One can easily jump back and forth.
    The Emacs key binding uses the Meta key. In GVim I could get this
    to work and so in GVim the key mapping mirrors the Emacs Ensime
    key binding. But, with Vim in an XTerm, I could not get the Meta/Alt
    key to be recognized (and there is NO single place where there is
    a definitive, failsafe guide for getting Meta/Alt key mappings to
    work, so I have a different binding for Vim.
    Very useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Selection Expand/Contract
    Select the surrounding syntactic context and easily shrink/grow the
    selection.
    Implementations: 2

  Global Public Search
    Search for method or types through project code using space separated
    search terms.
    Useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Hover To Symbol
    Place cursor (or mouse) over a variable and its Symbol will be
    displayed.
    Cute but requires frequent server polling.
    Implementations: 3

  Open Browser Info
    With cursor over Scala/Java variable, type, etc. invoke the associated
    on-line web api documentation (if it exists).
    Useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Use of Symbol At Point
    List all references to the symbol under the cursor.
    Very useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Launch Repl
    Switch to the Scala interpreter, with project classes in the classpath.
    TBD: cut/paste code fragments into Repl.
    Implementations: 1

  Typecheck Current File
    Typecheck the current file and display errors and warnings.
    Very useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Typecheck All Files
    Typecheck the all files and display errors and warnings.
    Very useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Re-Show Errors/Warnings
    Show all errors and warnings in the project.
    Very useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Format Source
    Format the current Scala source file.
    Useful.
    Implementations: 1

  Popup Menu
    Bring up Popup menu with all Vimside commands (requires Forms library).
    Useful for folks who have not yet learned the key mappings.
    Implementations: 1

  Browse Source Roots
    Directory browser of project sources (project code base).
    Implementations: 2

  Browse Reference Source Roots
    Directory browser of project reference sources (Java and Scala libraries).
    Implementations: 2

  Option Viewer/Editor
    Bring up the Option Viewer/Editor (requires Forms library). Lets one
    see all of the Vimside configurable Options and their current value.
    To be implemented will be an Editor allowing for the modification of
    some "dynamic" Options at runtime.
    Implementations: 1

  Completions
    OmmiCompletions using <c-x><c-o>.
    Very Useful.
    Implementations: 1


Ensime Capabilities to be Supported:

  Package Inspector
    Inspect imported package, current file's package and the package
    specified in the ensime configuration ':package'.

  Type Inspector
    Click on type and see information, Click on information and see its
    information. Move about Inspector history.

  SBT Command-Line
    Switch to the sbt command-line (works for sbt projects only)

  Scalex
    Seems to be a dead project (see: http://scalex.org/)

  Refactoring
    Rename the symbol at point.
    Organize imports.
    Extract local.
    Extract method.
    Inline local.
    Add import for type at point.

  Building
    Build the entire project.
    Rebuild the project incrementally.

  Run Application

  Debug Application
    Start and run the debugger.
    Start and run the debugger.
    Set a breakpoint.
    Clear a breakpoint.
    Step.
    Step over.
    Step out.
    Continue from a breakpoint.
    Kill the debug session.
    Inspect the local variable at cursor.
    Show backtrace.

  And others


